RHDEVDOCS-4027 - 5.4.1 RNs for main. 4.11, 4.10 (#45613)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cluster-logging-release-notes-5.4.z.adoc

//Z-stream Release Notes by Version
[id="cluster-logging-release-notes-5-4-1"]
= Logging 5.4.1
This release includes https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2022:2216[RHSA-2022:2216-OpenShift Logging Bug Fix Release 5.4.1].

[id="openshift-logging-5-4-1-bug-fixes"]
== Bug fixes

> * Before this update, the log file metric exporter was only reporting logs created while the exporter was running, resulting in inaccurate log growth data. This update resolves this by monitoring /var/log/pods. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2442[LOG-2442])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the log file metric exporter only reported logs created while the exporter was running, which resulted in inaccurate log growth data. This update resolves this issue by monitoring /var/log/pods. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2442[LOG-2442])
```
- Edited for concision.
- Avoid using `this` with no clear antecedent

> * Before this fix, the collector could time out when forwarding logs to fluentd forward receivers.  With this change, the `keepalive_timeout` value has been set to 30s so the collector will retry failed messages in a more reasonable amount of time. https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2534[LOG-2534]

Reviewer 2: +1 to Jeffs version.

> * Before this update, the collector would be blocked by continually trying to use a stale connection when forwarding logs to fluentd forward receivers.  With this change, the `keepalive_timeout` value has been set to 30s so the collector will recycle the connection and retry failed messages in a more reasonable amount of time. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2534[LOG-2534])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the collector would be blocked because it continually tried to use a stale connection when forwarding logs to fluentd forward receivers. With this release, the `keepalive_timeout` value has been set to 30 seconds (`30s`) so that the collector recycles the connection and re-attempts to send failed messages within a reasonable amount of time. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2534[LOG-2534])
```

Author: ack re 30 seconds, is there something in the style guide I missed that expresses a preference for not using retry? Retry seems more appropriate.

Reviewer: > ack re 30 seconds, is there something in the style guide I missed that expresses a preference for not using retry? Retry seems more appropriate.

There's nothing wrong with `retry`, but with my edit, the phrase `and `retries to send failed messages` wouldn't be idiomatic. If you want to keep `retry`, maybe `retries sending failed messages` would work?

> * Before this update, an error in the gateway component enforcing tenancy for reading logs limited access to logs with a Kubernetes namespace causing "audit" and some "infrastructure" logs to be unreadable. With this update, the proxy correctly detects users with admin access and allows access to logs without a namespace. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2448[LOG-2448])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, an error in the gateway component enforcing tenancy for reading logs limited access to logs with a Kubernetes namespace. This issue caused "audit" and some "infrastructure" logs to be unreadable. With this update, the proxy correctly detects users with admin access and allows access to logs without a namespace. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2448[LOG-2448])
```
- Are `"audit'` and `"infrastructure"` the names of the logs? Not sure why they would be in quotation marks here. Should they use back-ticks instead?

Author: The quotations were included by Engineering and I left them as they indicate categories of logs, not specific logs. They wouldn't be styled as `code`, since there is no direct field or value correlatives. IMBSG ok's the usage of quotations when terms are used unusually, as they are here.

> * Before this update, `system:serviceaccount:openshift-monitoring:prometheus-k8s` had cluster level privileges as a `clusterrole` and `clusterrolebinding`. This update restricts the `serviceaccount` to the `openshift-logging` namespace with a role and rolebinding. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2437[LOG-2437])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, `system:serviceaccount:openshift-monitoring:prometheus-k8s` had cluster level privileges set as `clusterrole` and `clusterrolebinding`. This update restricts the `serviceaccount` to the `openshift-logging` namespace with a role and rolebinding. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2437[LOG-2437])
```

Author: 'as a' is correct here. To say that privileges are 'set as' implies an order of causation that is incorrect.

> * Before this update, linux audit log time parsing relied on an ordinal position of key/value pair. This update changes the parsing to utilize a regex to find the time entry. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2321[LOG-2321])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, Linux audit log time parsing relied on an ordinal position of a key/value pair. This update changes the parsing to use a regular expression to find the time entry. (https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2321[LOG-2321])
```
